OSDOCS-6582: CLIOT-28 CPU Usage guidance (#82199)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/admin-quota-limits.adoc

== PersistentVolumeClaim limits

*Supported Resources:*

* Storage

*Supported Constraints:*

Across all persistent volume claims in a project, the following must hold true:

.Pod
[cols="3a,8a",options="header"]
|===

|Constraint |Enforced Behavior

|`Min`
|Min[<resource>] +<=+ claim.spec.resources.requests[<resource>] (required)

|`Max`
|claim.spec.resources.requests[<resource>] (required) +<=+ Max[<resource>]
|===

[[limit-range-obj-def]]

.Limit Range Object Definition

[source,json]
----
{
  "apiVersion": "v1",
  "kind": "LimitRange",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "pvcs" <1>
  },
  "spec": {
    "limits": [{
        "type": "PersistentVolumeClaim",
        "min": {
          "storage": "2Gi" <2>
        },
        "max": {
          "storage": "50Gi" <3>
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
----
<1> The name of the limit range object.
<2> The minimum amount of storage that can be requested in a persistent volume claim.
<3> The maximum amount of storage that can be requested in a persistent volume claim.

> .Additional resources

Reviewer: This needs to be at the assembly level because of the xrefs. If you had an additional resources section that was just external links, that would be okay - but not xrefs.

Author: This is done, thank you!

|`Max`
|`container.resources.limits[resource]` (required) less than or equal to `Max[resource]`.

|`MaxLimitRequestRatio`
|`MaxLimitRequestRatio[resource]` less than or equal to (`container.resources.limits[resource]` / `container.resources.requests[resource]`).

|===

== Image Limits

*Supported Resources:*

* Storage

*Resource type name:*

- `openshift.io/Image`

Per image, the following must hold true if specified:

.Image
[cols="3a,8a",options="header"]
|===
|Constraint |Behavior

|`Max`
|`image.dockerimagemetadata.size` less than or equal to `Max[resource]`
|===

ifdef::openshift-enterprise,openshift-origin[]
[NOTE]
====
To prevent blobs that exceed the limit from being uploaded to the registry, the registry must be configured to enforce quota. The `REGISTRY_MIDDLEWARE_REPOSITORY_OPENSHIFT_ENFORCEQUOTA` environment variable must be set to `true`. By default, the environment variable is set to `true` for new deployments.
====
endif::[]

[WARNING]
====

> The image size is not always available in the manifest of an uploaded image. This is especially the case for images built with Docker 1.10 or higher and pushed to a v2 registry. If such an image is pulled with an older Docker daemon, the image manifest is converted by the registry to schema v1 and does not include all the size information. No storage limit set on images will prevent it from being uploaded.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The image size is not always available in the manifest of an uploaded image. This is especially the case for images built with Docker 1.10 or higher and pushed to a v2 registry. If such an image is pulled with an older Docker daemon, the image manifest is converted by the registry to schema v1 and does not include all the size information. No storage limit set on images prevents it from being uploaded.
```

> :_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

Author: I'll agree. I struggled with that vs. the PROCEDURE. Done!

[id="admin-quota-limits_{context}"]

> = Setting Limit Ranges

Author: Agreed! Done.

> == `LimitRange`

Author: Agreed! I simply removed that title and allowed the section title to suffice.

endif::openshift-origin,openshift-enterprise[]

ifdef::openshift-online[]
[IMPORTANT]
====
For {product-title} Pro, the maximum pod memory is 3Gi. The minimum pod or
container memory that you can specify is 100Mi.

For {product-title} Starter, the maximum pod memory is 1Gi. The minimum pod or
container memory that you can specify is 200Mi.
====
endif::[]

.Core Limit Range Object Definition

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: "v1"
kind: "LimitRange"
metadata:
  name: "core-resource-limits" <1>
spec:
  limits:
    - type: "Pod"
      max:
        cpu: "2" <2>
        memory: "1Gi" <3>
      min:
        cpu: "200m" <4>
        memory: "6Mi" <5>
    - type: "Container"
      max:
        cpu: "2" <6>
        memory: "1Gi" <7>
      min:
        cpu: "100m" <8>
        memory: "4Mi" <9>
      default:
        cpu: "300m" <10>
        memory: "200Mi" <11>
      defaultRequest:
        cpu: "200m" <12>
        memory: "100Mi" <13>
      maxLimitRequestRatio:
        cpu: "10" <14>
----
<1> The name of the limit range object.

> <2> The maximum amount of CPU that a pod can request on a node across all

Author: @snarayan-redhat Thank you, there were TWO "hard returns" there that I removed!

> containers.

Author: Right, thank you!

<11> The default memory limit for a container if you do not specify a limit in the pod specification.
<12> The default CPU request for a container if you do not specify a request in the pod specification.
<13> The default memory request for a container if you do not specify a request in the pod specification.
<14> The maximum limit-to-request ratio for a container.

For more information on how CPU and memory are measured, see xref:../scalability_and_performance/recommended-performance-scale-practices/recommended-control-plane-practices.adoc#recommended-scale-practices_recommended-control-plane-practices[Recommended control plane practices].

.{product-title} Limit Range Object Definition

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: "v1"
kind: "LimitRange"
metadata:
  name: "openshift-resource-limits"
spec:
  limits:
    - type: openshift.io/Image
      max:
        storage: 1Gi <1>
    - type: openshift.io/ImageStream
      max:
        openshift.io/image-tags: 20 <2>
        openshift.io/images: 30 <3>
    - type: "Pod"
      max:
        cpu: "2" <4>
        memory: "1Gi" <5>
        ephemeral-storage: "1Gi" <6>

>      max:

Reviewer 3: yes, with min it works.
```
 cat ocp-resource-limits.yaml
apiVersion: "v1"
kind: "LimitRange"
metadata:
  name: "openshift-resource-limits"
spec:
  limits:
    - type: openshift.io/Image
      max:
        storage: 1Gi 
    - type: openshift.io/ImageStream
      max:
        openshift.io/image-tags: 20 
        openshift.io/images: 30 
    - type: "Pod"
      max:
        cpu: "2" 
        memory: "1Gi" 
        ephemeral-storage: "1Gi" 
      min:
        cpu: "1" 
        memory: "1Gi" 

$ oc create -f ocp-resource-limits.yaml 
limitrange/openshift-resource-limits created

```

>      max:

Author: @wangke19 @snarayan-redhat Strange it got that way, but I have fixed it, thank you!

        cpu: "1" <7>
        memory: "1Gi" <8>
----
<1> The maximum size of an image that can be pushed to an internal registry.
<2> The maximum number of unique image tags as defined in the specification for the image stream.
<3> The maximum number of unique image references as defined in the specification for the image stream status.
<4> The maximum amount of CPU that a pod can request on a node across all containers.
<5> The maximum amount of memory that a pod can request on a node across all containers.
<6> The maximum amount of ephemeral storage that a pod can request on a node across all containers.
<7> The minimum amount of CPU that a pod can request on a node across all containers. If you do set a `min` value or you set `min` to `0`, the result is no limit and the pod can consume more than the `max` CPU value.
<8> The minimum amount of memory that a pod can request on a node across all containers. If you do not set a `min` value or you set `min` to `0`, the result` is no limit and the pod can consume more than the `max` memory value.

> You can specify both core and {product-title} resources in one limit range object. They are shown separately in two examples for clarity.

Author: @snarayan-redhat Agreed, thank you!

== Container Limits

*Supported Resources:*

* CPU
* Memory

*Supported Constraints:*

Per container, the following must hold true if specified:

> .Container

Author: Good catch, @snarayan-redhat ! (I tried to catch all of them).  I agree with you about breaking this into a separate module.

[cols="3a,8a",options="header"]
|===

|Constraint |Behavior

|`Min`

> |`Min[resource]` less than or equal to `container.resources.requests[resource]`

Author: @snarayan-redhat  It MUST be, because it isn't a constant or a literal!

> |`Min[resource]` less than or equal to `container.resources.requests[resource]`

Author: Also, found some hard returns to remove in this area.

> |`Min[resource]` less than or equal to `container.resources.requests[resource]`

Author: There were over 60 of these!

(required) less than or equal to `container/resources.limits[resource]`
(optional)

> If the configuration defines a `min` CPU, the request value must be greater than the CPU value. If you do not set a `min` value or you set `min` to `0`, the result is no limit and the pod can consume more of the resource than the `max` value.

Author: I changed the callout to say  "See the Supported Constraints" table for important information."

link:https://github.com/openshift/origin/issues/7706[The issue] is being addressed.
====

== Image Stream Limits

*Supported Resources:*

* `openshift.io/image-tags`
* `openshift.io/images`

*Resource type name:*

- `openshift.io/ImageStream`

Per image stream, the following must hold true if specified:

.ImageStream
[cols="3a,8a",options="header"]
|===
|Constraint |Behavior

|`Max[openshift.io/image-tags]`
|`length( uniqueimagetags( imagestream.spec.tags ) )` less than or equal to `Max[openshift.io/image-tags]`

`uniqueimagetags` returns unique references to images of given spec tags.

|`Max[openshift.io/images]`
|`length( uniqueimages( imagestream.status.tags ) )` less than or equal to `Max[openshift.io/images]`

`uniqueimages` returns unique image names found in status tags. The name is equal to the digest for the image.

|===

== Counting of Image References

> The `openshift.io/image-tags` resource represents unique xref:../nodes/clusters/nodes-cluster-limit-ranges.adoc#nodes-cluster-limit-stream-limits[stream limits]. Possible references are an `ImageStreamTag`, an `ImageStreamImage`, or a `DockerImage`. Tags can be created by using the `oc tag` and `oc import-image` commands or by using xref:../openshift_images/image-streams-manage.adoc#images-imagestream-use_image-streams-managing[managing images streams]. No distinction is made between internal and external references. However, each unique reference that is tagged in an image stream specification is counted just once. It does not restrict pushes to an internal container image registry in any way, but is useful for tag restriction.

Author: @snarayan-redhat I saw this and elected to leave it alone, because I'm afraid I'll lose important information if I move it all the way down to "Additional resources". This document is in response to a customer case and I think that specific paragraph might speak to the problem the customer ran into.

My plan is to rewrite this section such that the important facts are captured in a paragraph and the xrefs are moved from that paragraph to an "Additional resources section immediately below the paragraph.

> The `openshift.io/image-tags` resource represents unique xref:../nodes/clusters/nodes-cluster-limit-ranges.adoc#nodes-cluster-limit-stream-limits[stream limits]. Possible references are an `ImageStreamTag`, an `ImageStreamImage`, or a `DockerImage`. Tags can be created by using the `oc tag` and `oc import-image` commands or by using xref:../openshift_images/image-streams-manage.adoc#images-imagestream-use_image-streams-managing[managing images streams]. No distinction is made between internal and external references. However, each unique reference that is tagged in an image stream specification is counted just once. It does not restrict pushes to an internal container image registry in any way, but is useful for tag restriction.

Reviewer: I understand what you're trying to do  @GroceryBoyJr but it breaks on the customer portal so we can't merge it like this. You'll have to create Additional resources sections underneath each module at the assembly level. The only way to get this to show up exactly where you want it is to break this module into smaller modules so that you can have an additional resources at the assembly between them.

> The `openshift.io/images` resource represents unique image names that are recorded in image stream status. It allows for restriction of several images that can be pushed to the internal registry. Internal and external references are not distinguished.

Author: @snarayan-redhat OH wow, this is a great catch, thank you.

|===

[[limit-range-obj-def]]

.Limit Range Object Definition

[source,json]
----
{
  "apiVersion": "v1",
  "kind": "LimitRange",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "pvcs" <1>
  },
  "spec": {
    "limits": [{
        "type": "PersistentVolumeClaim",
        "min": {
          "storage": "2Gi" <2>
        },
        "max": {
          "storage": "50Gi" <3>
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
----
<1> The name of the limit range object.
<2> The minimum amount of storage that can be requested in a persistent volume claim.
<3> The maximum amount of storage that can be requested in a persistent volume claim.

ifdef::openshift-dedicated[]
== Project Limits

For information about enforcing different limits on the number of projects that your users can create, as well as on managing limits and quota on project resources, see xref:../admin_guide/managing_projects.adoc#admin-guide-managing-projects[Managing Projects].
endif::openshift-dedicated[]

== Creating a Limit Range

To apply a limit range to a project:

. Create a limit range object definition with your required specifications.

. Create the object:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f <limit_range_file> -n <project>

> ----

Author: Oh my...OK!

> ----

Author: Done, thank  you!

----
$ oc describe limits resource-limits -n demoproject
----
+
.Example Output
+
[source,terminal]
----
Name:                           resource-limits
Namespace:                      demoproject
Type                            Resource                Min     Max     Default Request Default Limit   Max Limit/Request Ratio
----                            --------                ---     ---     --------------- -------------   -----------------------
Pod                             cpu                     200m    2       -               -               -
Pod                             memory                  6Mi     1Gi     -               -               -
Container                       cpu                     100m    2       200m            300m            10
Container                       memory                  4Mi     1Gi     100Mi           200Mi           -
openshift.io/Image              storage                 -       1Gi     -               -               -
openshift.io/ImageStream        openshift.io/image      -       12      -               -               -
openshift.io/ImageStream        openshift.io/image-tags -       10      -               -               -

> ----

Author: Oh my....OK!

> ----

Author: Done, thank you!
